Park the scooter on a stable
keep the rear wheel off the ground let
it cool before you begin working unhook
any emissions or other components
attached to the exhaust follow the
header pipe up to the flange and remove
the nuts or bolts securing the exhaust
to the head you should have a container
or bags handy to store fasteners and
parts remove the exhaust mounting bolts
hold the muffler so it doesn't fall and
remove it carefully once the bolts are
out move to the other side and take out
the bolts holding the CVT cover then
remove the cover now you'll need to
remove the clutch nut you may be able to
use a ratchet while someone holds the
rear brake or a holding tool an impact
wrench is the easy way remove the clutch
belt squeeze the belt or rear pulley so
there slack in the belt then remove the
rear pulley you can wrap the belt is
shown to keep it out of your way and to
prevent the variator from moving around
take off the axle nut by holding the
brake and using a large ratchet or a
breaker bar or an impact wrench then
slide the wheel off and set it aside
you don't have to remove the brake shoes
in all cases but I prefer getting them
out of the way you can remove the
springs or carefully fold the shoes as
shown to remove the whole assembly at
once unscrew the brake adjuster then
separate the rod spring and cylinder
pull the brake cable out of the guide in
the case I like to reassemble the cable
parts so nothing gets lost place the
drain pan under the gearbox drain plug
then remove the plug in washer clean the
drain plug
after the gear oil has drained wipe the
area and reinstall the drain plug in
washer put rags or a pan under the
gearbox and remove the bolts shown
with those out you should be able to
slowly separate the small half of the
gearbox from the rest of the engine
next you can start removing gears slide
the counter shaft out of the bearing you
should see a spacer on the counter shaft
or stuck to its bearing on the small
case half note its location and do not
lose it now slide the rear axle and gear
out there should be two dowels in either
the small or large case half set those
aside so they won't get lost
remove the old gasket
even if you're only planning on
replacing one bearing check them all
while you have it apart bearings should
not have much play or feel rough or be
noisy when rotating if you aren't sure
if a bearing is bad get another opinion
or replace it I suggest using quality
replacements from non Chinese
manufacturers like SK FF AG n TN and SK
nachi or Co yo here are diagrams of the
bearings in a typical 139 qmb gearbox
I use the Honda bearing to replace the
oddball 6303 x3 it comes with one side
sealed you can remove the seal with a
small pick or screwdriver clean out both
sides of the gearbox with brake parts
cleaner and let them dry now it's time
to remove the bearings I use a blind
hole bearing puller it's basically a
slide hammer with attachments that fit
inside of the bearings you can buy them
or maybe even rent one from a local auto
parts store choose the adapter that fits
the bearing you wish to remove insert it
through the center of a bearing then
tighten it so it expands to grip the
bearing after it's secure I like to heat
the area around the bearing I'm removing
the aluminum case should expand more
quickly than a steel bearing to make
removal easier heat is not necessary
when using the bearing puller but it
helps with enough heat the bearings will
basically fall out but too much heat
could warp or damage the cases open
flames such as a torch should be avoided
I use a heat gun sort of a blow-dryer on
steroids be careful not to burn yourself
when heating parts welding gloves or
other thick leather gloves are necessary
of handling heated bits once the case is
hot up to maybe 250 to 300 degrees
Fahrenheit for easiest removal attach
the slide hammer to its adapter and
remove the bearing
after the bearing comes out unscrew the
adapter and remove the bearing from it
repeat the process on the remaining
bearings in both gearbox have you may
want to remove the rear axle seal to
access the bearing behind it use a seal
polar and be careful not to damage the
case you can also leave it and it should
pop out when you pull the bearing the
primary driveshaft and it's bearing
require a little different approach like
the others heat the area around the
bearing heat should be used to reduce
the force needed to drive out the shaft
and bearing
hold the gear side of the shaft with a
glove use a rubber mallet to tap the
shaft out don't pound the shaft out if
it doesn't come out easily heat the area
more and retry you still need to get the
bearing off of the shaft you could try a
bearing separator or puller you may be
able to heat the inner ring of the
bearing and tap the shaft out with a
mallet but you may need a torch rather
than a heat gun for this I use the
benchtop press to press the shaft
through it shouldn't require much force
if it does try using heat as described
earlier and then retry pressing whatever
method you use avoid heavy impacts or
pressure the drive shaft seal should be
replaced so tap it out with a plunger
screwdriver
be careful not to damage the case clean
everything with brake parts cleaner
again and inspect the cases to be sure
the race is where the bearings mount are
in good condition